# AI Coding Experience

## Sanjana Shankar
The AI that I am using currently to help with developing our application is ChatGPT as I believe it is helping with providing me with the background in order to develop in React and create different pages in React as I am new to programming in React. One specific situation where I experimented with ChatGPT specifically was to make sure the sign up and login functionality is working since that was the functionality at top priority to get done after the MVP. Through the help of ChatGPT I was able to find out that the way I was trying to get the Google OAuth to work with our frontend I was trying to do it by connecting it with our Flask backend and I learned that it is only easier to be done if we use Firebase since the user's login information and authentication is getting lost over multiple pages of the website. Therefore, through ChatGPT I was able to approach this another way as I was stuck on this issue for quite a long  time and I was able to change my approach by using Google's sign in library which was much easier to process as the majority is only done in the frontend and does not need access to the Flask backend. However, the approach that ChatGPT provided me with regards to the exact commands did not work as I didn't realize until I watched a YouTube video made by Google themselves that there are updated versions as to how to incorporate Google OAuth sign in through React frontend for the development of a web page. I learned that it is important to check various resources before blindly following ChatGPT or any Generative AI as following these commands without properly understanding the flow can lead to longer debugging sessions. However, the use of ChatGPT aided me in coming up with a different approach than only trying it through accessing the Flask backend which was a great starting point and led to faster progress. 
## Kavya Verma
I used ChatGPT to make our landing page more visually appealing to the user. One UI element I prompted ChatGPT to help me with was creating a typewriter effect to apply to the captions on the landing page and a gradient to “Image2Caption”. For the typewriter effect I liked that it gave me the option to either implement it directly with code, or install a package that I can import and use in the code. I ended up using the package that it recommended, which made it easier for me to implement. Going forward, I know that I can find these packages online and quickly learn how to implement them in my code. To ensure that the AI output was understandable, I added the div element that contained the header and captions so that AI can have some context before giving me suggestions. Overall, using ChatGPT was useful because it gave me proper guidance on how to implement this specific CSS styling in my code.
## Alice Zhong
I used ChatGPT to help set up the function for posting directly to Instagram. I am using an open source tool called Instagram private API for this, but since it requires languages and tools I am not familiar with, I wanted some help to set it up. I asked ChatGPT for steps to create a function for posting directly to Instagram, and it took me through cloning the repository, installing the dependencies, and gave me a template function in Javascript. The function it wrote for me only needed some minor adjustments to work, and I was able to successfully create an Instagram post.
## David Sim
- Working with Copilot on VScode. It is very helpful with suggestions but will sometimes miss items. I utilize it more for intellisense uses more than code suggestions. They way it codes is not compatable with my style. I really only needed to adjust it a few times for my specific use cases for it to understand what I was looking for. 
## Abhishek Ambastha
I am making use of ChatGPT to help me with setting up some of the API wrappers for calls to Google OAuth and MusixMatch. For instance, when we were running Google OAuth locally and there were issues with the login process, I leveraged ChatGPT to understand the error better. I had already read the API documentation but I was still confused as to what could be wrong, which was why I consulted AI. After doing this, ChatGPT was quickly able to tell me that the error was a JWT token not being there. Now, even after I added the code that was given to me, it still was not working which was where I had to dive deeper into the documentation and see why JWT was needed as a header. This showed the importance of using AI as a tool to assist you in development but not solely relying on it since even the results it gave me did not work properly. Another very difficult task for us has been finding an API that lets us query for songs based on genre. After surfing the web quite strenuously, we still had not found a way to do that, which was when I decided to consult AI. Quickly, ChatGPT, was able to inform me of an API called MusixMatch which actually does give a way to query based on genre, which helped a lot for one of our workflows. From here, I was able to set a wrapper for the genre-based workflow which made it a lot easier to query for lyrics. So my learning from all this is to use AI as a learning assistance tool but that relying on it is not good since there are still errors the code gives.
## Saahas Buricha
I have been making use of ChatGPT to help set up calls to the gemini API for our project. I have mostly been working with integrating the gemini API to the flask backend of the application. I had initially been configuring the gemini API incorrectly with its key and ChatGPT was able to help me realize the error and fix the error. It served as a great tool because the error which I was getting locally did not initially make much sense to me, but ChatGPT’s explanation did. When trying to implement the bulk upload feature, I leveraged ChatGPT to help me think of potential ideas/algorithms that could be used or tried out in order to implement the feature. ChatGPT was able to give me a list of potential methods I could use to try and get this feature to work with explanations on why each idea worked. It served as a good starting point to help me solidify the idea I was going to use before jumping into the code.
## Angel Gutierrez
I will be using ChatGPT to help me come up with some design changes to our app. Currently, we display the user uploaded image and caption in basic cards. I want to make it more visually appealing for the user and plan on using ChatGPT to implement some sort of polaroid style design. Because I don’t have too much experience using React and coding with JS, I will use it to help me understand and format the stylistic aspects of the app. While there are many resources available about using CSS, ChatGPT has allowed me to very quickly learn about how I specifically could design what I envision for the frontend. I asked it for the steps that I should take to implement the polaroid style design and it gave me different alternatives to how I could do it. So far this has been very helpful as it has jump started my process for incorporating a polaroid design for our image/captions.
